Update the scaling out section (#233)
timescale/docs.timescale.com-content: getting-started/scaling-out.md

# Scaling out using Distributed Hypertables

>:WARNING: Distributed hypertables are currently in PRIVATE BETA and
are not yet meant for production use. For more information, please
[contact us][contact].

Hypertables handle large amounts of data by breaking it up into
smaller pieces (chunks), allowing operations to execute
efficiently. When the amount of data is expected to be beyond what a
single machine can handle, you can distribute the data chunks over
several machines by using *distributed hypertables*.  Distributed
hypertables are similar to normal hypertables, but they add an

> additional layer of hypertable partitioning by distributing chunks

Reviewer: Suggestion: "... but they allow partitioning the hypertable further by distributing..."

Author: I am not too fond of this suggestion because I don't think distributed hypertables allow further partitioning. In fact, you can partition the same way on a single node and the only difference is where chunks are stored.

Also, FWIW, this is not new content, just updated because of formatting (line breaks).

  the data node.

* PostgreSQL instances that will act as data nodes are assumed to
  contain the same roles and permissions as the access node
  instance. Currently, such roles and permissions need to be created
  manually, although there is a [utility command][distributed_exec]
  that can be used to create roles and permissions across data nodes.

* A data node needs
  [`max_prepared_transactions`][max_prepared_transactions]
  set to a value greater than zero.

When creating the data node, you should:

* Run `add_data_node` as a superuser that can authenticate with the
  data node instance. This can be done by setting up either password
  or certificate [authentication][data-node-authentication].

* Provide a name to use when referring to the data node from
  the access node database.

* Provide the host name, and optionally port, of the PostgreSQL
  instance that will hold the data node.

After creating the data node:

* Ensure that non-superusers have `USAGE` privileges on the
  `timescaledb_fdw` foreign data wrapper and any
  data node objects they will use on the access node.

* Ensure that each user of a distributed hypertable has a way to

>   [authenticate][data-node-authentication] with the data nodes they

Reviewer 2: I'm assuming the `page-index.js` will have been modified to accommodate this page (from the other PR)?

Author: I assume that too :)

Note that:

* A data node is added as a local object on the access node and
  contains the configuration needed to connect to a database on a
  PostgreSQL instance.

* You should already have a running PostgreSQL server on an instance

>   that will host a data node database. The data node's database will

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  that will host a data node. The data node's database will
```

  be created when executing the `add_data_node` command on the access

>   node and should _not_ exist prior to adding the data node.

Reviewer: It can exist, it will not fail, but it might be good to not encourage it.

```
	/* Create the database with the user as owner. This command might fail
	 * if the database already exists, but we catch the error and continue
	 * with the bootstrapping if it does. */
	res = remote_connection_execf(conn,
								  "CREATE DATABASE %s OWNER %s",
								  quote_identifier(dbname),
								  quote_identifier(username));
```

Author: Question is if we should delve into the subtleties of this here. I do say _should_ and not _must_. I figure we'd keep it simple here.

* PostgreSQL instances that will act as data nodes are assumed to
  contain the same roles and permissions as the access node instance
  (or, at a minimum, the roles and permissions associated with

>   distributed hypertables). Currently, such roles and permissions need

Reviewer: Even though correct, I suggest that you remove the comment in the parentheses. It's a good way to distract the reader from the main focus.

  to be created manually, although there is a [utility
  command][distributed_exec] that can be used to create roles and

>   permissions across all (or a subset of) data nodes.

Reviewer: Suggest to remove "all (or a subset of) ".

When creating the data node, you should:

* Run `add_data_node` as a superuser.

* Ensure that the access node's superuser has a way to
  [authenticate][data-node-authentication] with the data node
  instance. This can be done either by setting up password or
  certificate authentication. Other ways of authenticating may be

>   supported in the future.

Reviewer: Suggest to focus on what we have now, the last sentence is redundant.

* Provide a name to use when referring to the data node from
  the access node database.

> * Provide the host name (and optionally port) of the PostgreSQL

Reviewer: Suggest "...host name, and optionally port, of the PostgreSQL..."

  instance that holds data node.

After creating the data node:

* Ensure that non-superusers have `USAGE` privileges on the
  `timescaledb_fdw` foreign data wrapper and any

>   data node objects they will use on the access node.

Reviewer: Hmmm.... maybe something we might consider to do automatically when adding the data node. No action here though.

> * Ensure that each user of a distributed hypertable have a way to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Ensure that each user of a distributed hypertable has a way to
```

SELECT detach_data_node('node1', hypertable => 'conditions');
```

Note that you cannot detach a data node that still holds data for the

> hypertable. A common way to solve this issue is to use a retention

Reviewer: "common"? We have not really had it in production. Suggest "You can solve this by using the retention period of the data and make sure..."

I think you should also have a link to a description about the retention period.

Author: Not sure what you mean by `description about the retention period.`? This is more of a concept enabled by drop_chunks.

Author: See update.

period for the data and make sure that the data node only holds data
outside the retention window at the time it is detached. This can be
achieved by first blocking new chunks on the data node:

```sql
SELECT block_new_chunks('node1', hypertable => 'conditions');
```

> This will prohibit any new data to be stored on the data node. Once

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will prohibit any new data from being stored on the data node. Once
```
